 -After Special Counsel Robert Mueller
delivered his report, President Trump decided
to pick fights over healthcare and the Special Olympics.
For more on this, it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
It's been a little over a week since Trump's Attorney General
William Barr released his letter on Mueller's report,
stating that the investigation did not establish that members
of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated
with the Russian government
in its election-interference activities.
And, obviously, that was good news for Trump.
I'd say he's had a pep in his step ever since,
but he doesn't really take steps.
[ Laughter ]
If he had a Fitbit, the only thing his Fitbit
would ever display is, "You up?"
[ Laughter ]
Now, when Barr released this memo, everyone just assumed
it was a summary of Mueller's full report,
a word Trump's aides and the media
have used over and over again.
-The Attorney General's summary of the Mueller report is out.
-We received a 4-page summary of the Mueller report.
-This was a summary of the Robert Mueller report.
-Preview.
-You have the Barr summary.
-The 4-page summary by Attorney General Barr.
-There you go -- this was a summary of Mueller's report.
Barr told us everything we need to know,
and we can all move on. Got it.
-The Attorney General tonight sent this letter
announcing that everybody misinterpreted
what he said last weekend in that letter.
What he did last week is being talked about
in a way that he didn't expect.
That's not at all what he meant, and we should all know better.
"I am aware of some media reports
and other public statements mischaracterizing
my March 24th supplemental notification
as a summary of the special counsel's
investigation and report.
My March 24th letter was not and did not purport to be
an exhaustive recounting
of the special counsel's investigation or report.
-Wait. So it wasn't supposed to be a summary?
That's kind of an important detail to leave out.
That's like reading the line, "The Prince and Princess
lived happily ever after," in a fairy tale,
and then you turn the page and there's a note saying,
"That was not and should not
be mischaracterized as the ending.
They got divorced the next day."
Now, there is no -- [ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
To be clear, there's no reason to expect that Barr's memo
is distorting Mueller's report.
But even if his initial memo was accurate
and made in good faith, it's still difficult for anyone
to summarize something as long as Mueller's report.
For one thing, the report is apparently
more than 300 pages long, went well beyond the kind of
bare-bones summary required by the Justice Department,
and detailed his conclusions at length.
And you can't boil a 300-page document down to 4 pages.
It's like when you try to cram for a test
by reading the Cliff Notes for "The Great Gatsby"
and you end up writing, "Wealthy man enjoys
consequence-free summer in the Hamptons."
[ Laughter and applause ]
So, we have no idea -- no idea -- what's in the report.
Barr says it'll be released sometime this month,
and yet some Republicans are already threatening to block
the release of a report they say exonerates the President.
Last week, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell objected
to a resolution calling for the report to be made public,
and Senator Rand Paul said he would oppose
releasing the report until there's an investigation
of the Obama administration.
-We need to have information on Obama White House officials,
Comey, Brennan, Clapper. That should be part of it.
So, Democrats want the complete Mueller report.
I'm going to object until we get a complete report
of all the Obama-era officials that got this thing started.
-You want an investigation of the Obama administration?
You investigated him for eight years and came up with nothing.
The worst scandal you dug up
was the fact that he wore a tan suit once.
[ Laughter and applause ]
"Where did he get the suit?
How much did he pay for the suit?"
So, Mueller's report did not establish
that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia.
But still, even if you put aside
the question of Russian collusion,
Mueller's investigation has still exposed a whole world
of normalized corruption by some of the wealthiest
and most powerful people in the country
that was just accepted in Washington until now.
Just look at Paul Manafort. The guy spent years
as an unregistered foreign agent,
lobbying for some of the worst people in the world.
And in the process, he stole tens of millions of dollars
from the American people, money he used to buy everything
from antique rugs to expensive cars to --
and this is real -- a $15,000 jacket made from an ostrich,
which is why Manafort's heart dropped
when he walked into the courtroom and saw the judge.
[ Laughter and applause ]
It shouldn't...
It shouldn't take a special counsel
for us to find out that some of the most powerful people
in the country are hoarding their wealth
by committing serial fraud
and illegally stashing their money in offshore tax havens.
Even if nothing else came out of the Russia investigation,
people are learning how wealth and power operate in America.
I mean, this guy right here
was the President's campaign chairman.
The only way it could be worse
is if Trump made Lori Loughlin his Secretary of Education.
[ Laughter ]
And I, of course -- I, of course am just kidding.
Betsy DeVos is still worse.
[ Laughter ]
I mean, at least... [ Cheers and applause ]
At least Lori Loughlin's trying to make it easier
for people to get into college.
[ Laughter ]
In fact, even as Trump and his inner circle
has spent their time in power enriching themselves,
they've also been trying to take healthcare away
from millions of people.
Last week, the Trump administration
said the entire Affordable Care Act
should be repealed, and yet, as if that wasn't enough,
the Trump administration also decided
to pick a totally unnecessary fight
with basically everybody
by proposing to cut funding for the Special Olympics.
-Education Secretary Betsy DeVos came under fire
on Capitol Hill Tuesday while defending
proposed funding cuts for the Special Olympic.
The Trump administration wants to cut all $18 million
in federal money for the program.
-How awful do you have to be
to try to cut funding for the Special Olympics?
You might as well use the money you saved
to bulldoze an orphanage.
"We all know those orphanages are eyesores.
We're knocking down them."
[ Laughter ]
And the administration's response to the news
was also proof that the President has no idea
what his own government is doing.
First, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos
said it wasn't her idea to make the cut
and blasted Democrats for making a political issue
out of it during a budget hearing.
-As I said then and I'll say again,
this week, had to make tough choices
and decisions around the budget priorities.
I love Special Olympics myself.
I have given a portion of my salary to Special Olympics.
I hope all of this debate encourages lots of
private contributions to Special Olympics.
So let's not use disabled children
in a twisted way for your political narrative.
That is just disgusting, and it's shameful.
-You guys are the ones who proposed the cut!
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
If you set --
If you set your neighbor's house on fire,
and they call 911, you can't turn around and say,
"Aren't you the town gossip!"
[ Laughter ]
Also, can we go back to this?
-I have given a portion of my salary to Special Olympics.
-You're a billionaire.
The Special Olympics cut was $18 million.
Betsy DeVos has, according to "Newsweek,"
10 boats, 2 helicopters, and a yacht scheduler.
She has so many yachts, she has a yacht scheduler.
[ Laughter ]
What's a yacht scheduler?!
[ Laughter and applause ]
Is it someone who --
[ Cheers and applause ]
Is a yacht scheduler someone who, when you say,
"Bring the yacht around," says, "I wouldn't do that.
It might crash into the other yacht"?
[ Laughter ]
Then, after the hearing, reporters tried to get answers
from DeVos as she waited for an elevator,
and she responded by pretending not to hear them.
-Madam Secretary, do you any response
to the Democrats' criticism of your budget proposal?
Madam Secretary, you said today that you were not the person
that proposed this funding change.
Can you explain who in your administration did?
Madam Secretary, have you spoken to the President
about this at all?
If there's some misunderstanding,
Madam Secretary, this is your opportunity to explain it to us.
-I mean, look at her. That's the face
of someone thinking to herself, "Where's my elevator scheduler?"
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
-Also, I love how the camera zooms in on her face.
CNN apparently got the same director who did "The Office."
[ Laughter ]
-Then after his Education Secretary
went to Capitol Hill to defend a budget cut
that basically everyone hated, Trump just waltzed up
to reporters on the White House lawn
and told them, "Never mind.
We're funding the Special Olympics after all."
-Why cut money to the Special Olympics?
Why would you cut funding for that?
-The Special Olympics will be funded.
I just told my people I want to fund the Special Olympics.
And I just authorized a funding of the Special Olympics.
I've been to the Special Olympics.
I think it's incredible.
And I just authorized a funding.
I heard about it this morning.
-What do you mean you heard about it this morning?
You're the president. It's your budget.
Who's running this place?
I don't want to be this guy, but can you go get your manager?
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
And then, on Friday, Trump just kept lying
about the Special Olympics fiasco.
During a Q&A; with reporters at his resort in Palm Beach,
Trump was asked about his decision
to overrule sanctions on North Korea
that his own administration wanted to implement,
and he compared the situation to the Special Olympics
by once again lying about it.
-I just decided that I would not let it happen.
In a certain way, it's like the Special Olympics.
For many years, it hasn't been approved,
and then, at some point, it gets negotiated out in Congress.
Well, I went out, and I said, "We're gonna have funding
for the Special Olympics.
-You didn't save it!
You're the one who proposed the cut!
Where is your manager?!
[ Laughter, cheers, applause ]
Trump lies like this...
[ Cheers and applause continues ]
He lies like this about everything.
In fact, this isn't even the only budget item
Trump has lied about this week.
Just take something as innocuous
as The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative,
which was first implemented by Obama in 2010.
Trump requested no funding at all for this initiative
in his 2018 budget request,
effectively eliminating the program.
His latest budget proposes a 90% cut to the program.
And yet at a rally in Michigan last week,
Trump told his supporters he was totally committed
to funding the program while also making clear
he knows absolutely nothing about the Great Lakes.
-I support the Great Lakes.
[ Cheers and applause ]
Always have.
They're beautiful. They're big, very deep.
Record deepness, right?
-I am -- I'm sorry, but I have a hard time believing
you have always supported the Great Lakes.
[ Laughter ]
You grew up in Queens and worked in Manhattan real estate.
"As a little boy, I loved two things --
giant gold buildings and the lakes in the Midwest."
[ Laughter ]
"I know them all -- Huron, Michelen, Eric,
Titicaca, and Inferior."
[ Laughter and applause ]
You...
[ Cheers and applause continues ]
When it comes to lakes, you're out of your depth,
or should I say, you're out of your...
-Deepness.
[ Laughter ]
-Trump did the same thing
while rambling about wind energy at the same rally.
He bragged about energy production
under his administration, and for some reason,
he decided to go on an extended rant
about how much he knows about wind.
-If Hillary got in, you wouldn't have that stat,
I can tell you right now.
You'd be doing wind, windmills. Weeend!
[ Laughter ]
-If there's one thing we've learned
about Trump's presidency so far,
it's that he loves doing random sound effects.
-Weeend! Shoom!
Whuh-huh-huh. Bink.
[ Laughter ]
-That's the whole presidency right there.
He lies about funding for the Special Olympics
and tries to take away his voters' healthcare,
but they love his sound effects.
We're living through the "Police Academy" presidency.
[ Warbling, imitated gunfire, trilling ]
Mueller's report may not have established Russian collusion,
but it exposed a whole world of corruption
most people didn't know about.
Donald Trump isn't working for another country.
He's working for himself.
He's enriching himself while trying
to take healthcare away from millions.
In other words, we're in deep.
-Record deepness.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ] 